---
Week: 39
Content: SS2 startup, AWS Infrastructure and IAM
Material: AWS material
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 39 SS2 startup, AWS Infrastructure and IAM

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* Groups are introduced to AWS and have a good idea about the content of SS2

### Learning goals
* Cloud computing
  * Level 1: Explain what cloud computing is
  * Level 2: Give at least 3 advantages with a short description of why cloud computing is better than the traditional one
  * Level 3: Describe the AWS infrastructure, give with a brief overview of their services and create a new account, group, user, policy, and role within IAM.

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15
* Document describing how to fulfill the general learning goals of SS2

## Hands-on time

* Exercise 1:

  Create your free tier AWS account and secure it with MFA for the root user. Select the most suitable region for your needs.

* Exercise 2: Create an IAM group called ‘Administrators’ and attach a policy that gives the group permission to access all of your resources.

  Note that you are now logged in as root which is not a best practice.

  Create a non-root user, add it to your new group and try to log in using the new credentials. Set the MFA for this user as well. From now on, you will use the non-root user when doing exercises.

## Comments
* Create a document where you outline how you will fullfill the 5 SS learning goals. Remember to consider how you document the different parts.
* Check [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html) before you choose your location for the AWS account.
* You may find [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9CKsX6MOPDQ) very useful for the exercises.
