---
Week: 40
Content: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
Material: AWS material
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 40 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* None at this time

### Learning goals
* Virtual machines
  * Level 1: Explain what EC2 is
  * Level 2: Launch a new instance within suitable security groups depending on use cases
  * Level 3: Make HLD and LLD, including the use cases for each exercise (diagram + short description)

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15
* Probably some personal document update

## Hands-on time

* Exercise 1

  Launch a new linux instance and connect to it using SSH. Set the security groups accordingly.

* Exercise 2

  Your company wants to host a new website to sell their products on, by taking the advantage of EC2 instances and WordPress. Your job is to deploy the WordPress website on a linux instance. In case you are using the instance launched for exercise 1, make sure you change the existing security group with one that matches your needs.

* Exercise 3

  Launch a new windows instance and connect to it with RDP (maybe try bootstrapping).

* Exercise 4

  Your company wants to host a new website to sell their products on, by taking the advantage of EC2 instances and WordPress. Your job is to deploy the WordPress website on a windows instance. In case you are using the instance launched for exercise 3, make sure you change the existing security group with one that matches your needs.

## Comments
* Department head will probably be joining us on Thursday
* Exercises 2 and 4 are very similar, you can choose between hosting WordPress on a linux or windows instance, or you can try both.
* Check [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-lifecycle.html) before launching an instance, so you do not get billed. Always terminate your instance if you don’t use it anymore. It is very important to clean after yourself while practicing on AWS.
* You may find [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/hosting-wordpress.html) very useful for the exercise 2 or [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/EC2Win_CreateWordPressBlog.html) for the exercise 4.
