---
Week: 41
Content: Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS)
Material: AWS material
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 41 Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS)

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* None at this time

### Learning goals
* EBS Storage
  * Level 1: Know what EBS is, what it is used for, volume types and other related concepts.
  * Level 2: Able to create/attach/detach/reattach/encrypt/delete a volume and use snapshots.
  * Level 3: Match system requirements and implement virtual machines using EC2 and EBS

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15
* Probably some personal document update

## Hands-on time

* Exercise 1 (LG lvl 1)

  Using the [Feynman technique](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkm0TNFzIeg), write 250 words about EBS. Self-evaluate afterwards by highlighting formulations and concept where you feel weak.

* Exercise 2 (LG lvl 2)

  Create an EBS volume for an EC2 instance, terminate (delete) the instance and notice what happened with the volume.

* Exercise 3 (LG lvl 2)

  Take a snapshot of an EBS volume, delete the volume and use the snapshot to restore the volume.

* Exercise 4 (LG lvl 2)

  Launch an EC2 instance with an encrypted Amazon EBS volume (in two different ways) and test the encryption transparency to the instance itself.

* Exercise 4

  Your company encountered some problems after the last update of their website, and now, it is not displaying all the information needed for the customers. What you want to do, is to detach a boot drive and attach another one. The company has an instance with a volume attached to it and two snapshots (called ‘snapshot1’ and ‘snapshot2’). ‘Snapshot2’ contains the update version of the website, so you want to rollback to ‘snapshot1’.

## Comments
* After you are done with the exercises, do not forget to delete all the instances, volumes and snapshots.
* See [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPXnXkBzIHw) for exercise 3.
* We will be discussing SS3. So please consider which technologies you will be using in your internship, and we'll see if it fits with the network idea of SS3.
* The results of the SS! hand-in is now available on [wiseflow](https://wiseflow.dk). We discuss it Friday.
