---
Week: 43
Content: Amazon S3 and Amazon Glacier
Material: AWS material
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 43 Amazon S3 and Amazon Glacier

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* None at this time

### Learning goals
* Storage
  * Level 1: Know what Amazon S3 and Glacier are
  * Level 2: Able to create and use glacier storage and S3
  * Level 3: Know how to work with buckets, objects and how to host static websites with S3.

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15
* Probably some personal document update

## Hands-on time

* Exercise 1 (LG lvl 1)

  Using the [Feynman technique](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkm0TNFzIeg), write 250 words about S3 and glacier. Self-evaluate afterwards by highlighting formulations and concept where you feel weak.

* Exercise 2 (LG lvl 2)

  Create an S3 bucket called “mynewbucket”. Notice what happens. A bucket name (web folder name) must be unique globally, while a key object (filename) must be unique within a bucket.

* Exercise 3  (LG lvl 2)

  Use the bucket you created earlier to upload an object (any file from your PC that you are okay with making public to the Internet). Open the Amazon S3 URL (you will get an XML error code with AccessDenied). Make the object public and try again (make a notice of the URL). Rename the object and check the URL. Is it the same? Try and access it. Delete the object and reload the page.

* Exercise 4

  Enable Version Control and create multiple versions of an object.

* Exercise 5

  Use S3 to restore a deleted object.

* Exercise 6

  Host a static website on a bucket.



## Comments
* After you are done with the exercises, do not forget to delete all the objects and buckets. Here is how to work with [buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/create-configure-bucket.html) and [objects](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/upload-download-objects.html).
* See [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/HostingWebsiteOnS3Setup.html) for exercise 5.
* Friday is scheduled something about LEARN. It is a survey. MON gives an introduction.
