---
Week: 44
Content: Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
Material: AWS material
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 44 Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* None at this time

### Learning goals
* Virtual private clouds
  * Level 1: Know what Amazon VPC is
  * Level 2: Able to set up and use VPC
  * Level 3: Able to set up and use multi-subnet VPCs and other advanced features

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15?
  * Do we do this Thursday instead?
* Probably some personal document update
* Final report handin is next week.
* Peergrade reviews

## Hands-on time


* Exercise 1 (LG lvl 1)

  Using the [Feynman technique](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkm0TNFzIeg), write 250 words about VPCs in AWS. Self-evaluate afterwards by highlighting formulations and concept where you feel weak.
  
  You will review each other using peer grade.
  
* Exercise 2 (LG lvl 2)

  In AWS console, use the VPC wizard to set up a VPC with a single public subnet. Create a security group to match the needs of a web server. 

* Exercise 3

  In AWS console, use the VPC wizard to create a VPC with one public and one private subnet. Create security group and ACLs (if needed). Launch an EC2 instance on the public subnet and configure it as a web server. Try to access the web server as a user.

* Exercise 4

  Try using the AWS CLI for exercise 1 or 2.



## Comments
* Useful links for [ex.1](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/VPC_Scenario1.html), [ex.2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/VPC_Scenario2.html), [ex.3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/vpc-subnets-commands-example.html).
* After you are done with the exercises, do not forget to delete what you have created (do NOT delete the default VPC and its components).
* wiseflow handins link will appear later.
* Friday MON will be absent
* Thursday PDA will introduce peergrade, and we will test it on exercise 1.
