---
Week: 45
Content: DevOps
Material: Links in weekly plan
Initials: MON/PDA
---

# Week 45 DevOps

## Goals of the week(s)
Pratical and learning goals for the period is as follows

### Practical goals
* None at this time

### Learning goals
* DevOps
  * Level 1: Know what DevOps and CI is
  * Level 2: Able to script installation of a server
  * Level 3: Able to automatically generate VM images

## Deliverable
* Weekly presentations Friday at 12:15
* Probably some personal document update
* Peergrade reviews

## Hands-on time

* Exercise 1 (LG lvl 1)

  Using the [Feynman technique](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkm0TNFzIeg), write 250 words about DevOps and CI. Self-evaluate afterwards by highlighting formulations and concept where you feel weak.

  You will review each other using peer grade.

* Exercise 2 (LG lvl 2)

  Install a server. The specific server is different from each group, and we decide on class who builds what.

  Make a script, runable by root that installs the server from a well defined starting point. Remember to include a `readme.md` file to describe how it is used.

  This must be put on gitlab, and accessible.   Make sure that this works as run by root on the specified starting point.

  ```
  git clone $REPOLOCATION
  
  cd $REPONAME

sh ./runme.sh
  ```

  I will automate this, so you must adhere strictly to the format.

* Exercise 3

  Use `packer` to create a VM based on your script.



## Comments
* Thursday, we discuss peergrade from last week
* See the project introduction for the list of servers.
* Friday, Jonas from UFST will show up and tell us about how they work with DevOps.
